---
layout: post
title: new vim 
category: posts
---
I'm writing this in the Vim editor of my Linux machine so I can learn something new this vacation. Unfortunately, this editor doesn't have a spellcheck enabled. I don't see any red line if I type some nonsense. So, do forgive me if I make a typo here. I'm just so new to this terminal typing. Using a modal text editor is a very new & minimalist experience. Although I'm a native English speaker, even I have trouble spelling sometimes. I know I shouldn't, but dear, spelling is such a pain. I wonder if speakers of other languages have the same worries as me.

It's summer vacation. I've just finished high school. This is usually when students celebrate their new freedom. They go abroad, they go picnicking. They go watch a film with their friends at the cinema. In retrospect, they go outside the house. Well, I've barely gone outside the house since the vacation began. I believe I went outside two or three times. Not sure. I'm not so good at remembering things. I know some people have great memories, but I'm not that like that; I can't include myself in such a category. But the long house stay has made see parts of myself I haven't noticed before. Boredom is a great thing. I don't use social media, except for LinkedIn but that's an essential for modern adults, so I've loads of time to be bored. Sometimes, I merely look at something & try to stop thinking. I clear my mind. I'm not always successful. My mind does wander very much. Perhaps it's because of the boredom. Perhaps that's the cause. It is a delight to be bored once you're used to it.

I'm not interested in writing on this website frequently. I'm not really a writer. I've no interest in being a content creator. I'd rather just use the internet for essential services. This website is instead a place for to me occasionally jot down my thoughts. A place where no one knows who I am, except for my name. A place where I can be anything I want. A place where I'm only words, no body nor soul near your presence. That's what I am right now. Just words flowing through someone's fingers, who happens to be typing as of the moment. And it's not like I'm a special set of words. I'm in the common tongue. This isn't hard vocabulary (still having a hard time spelling; damn it Vim!). 

I don't know when I'll write here again. This could be the last time. Who knows what the future has in store? For now, I'm just going to be grateful I've a working life. Many people don't. Also, I'm going to see if Vim has a spellchecker function. Maybe I could install a plugin. This inability to spell hard & difficult words is being very much a nuisance.
