---
layout: post
title: linux course
category: posts
---
The climate is hot, & I'm having trouble even breathing in this hot sweltering weather. Also, I still haven't found a spellchecker for Vim! Even as I write this on Vim, there is no spellchecker enabled here. I certainly have to find a way out of this predicament. Anyways, I'm working on a Linux course on Udemy. It's great, although the instructor does get his English grammar wrong sometimes. That's not a problem though in my eyes, because English grammar is a pain. I was only able to learn English grammar by immersing myself in Western media & mimicking the actors & their accents & speech patterns. I had to watch & consume a whole ton of content. The instructor's English, disregarding his errors in grammar, is understable & clean, & he has an approachable Western-styled accent. He does get some words wrong. I'm not sure if I remember the exact words he got wrong. Maybe my memory will tell me as time passes.

It's very interesting to learn about Linux because it hasn't been that long since I've switched to Ubuntu from my previous Windows environment. I was a Windows user for ... lets see about six years. Yes, it was six years, & I hated each moment of it. Although I hated Windows very much, I never tried to get out of the system because doing so wasn't convenient. It was only when I realized that sticking to Windows was hampering my career growth did I finally change into my current Linux environment. Some things I love about Linux: minimalistic design, fast start-up (Windows took two minutes; Linux on my computer takes ten seconds at most), powerful CLI (Powershell just doesn't have the same alluring feel as the Linux kernel), & no forcing of system updates. The last point is very important. You've no idea how annoying it was when Microsoft decided to update my computer even though I was busy doing stuff on it. I mean God that was a nuisance!

I can't wait to see where this Udemy course will take me. Although my computer has aged quite a bit after all these years, Linux has made the computer feel new again; it still looks old as trash though. I'd really like to learn more about the Linux kernel & update my knowledge of command know-how. I mean the only commands I know are "whoami" & basic folder navigation, & how to open Vim from the CLI. I still don't have that spellchecker enabled. I wonder what it'll take me to get that spellchecking enabled. I decided to search the web about it two weeks ago, & to configure spellchecking on Vim sounded difficult so I haven't done it yet. It'd be a nice thing to have here though. Spellchecking is a given in most text editors or environments like Obsidian. I guess Vim is just old school. It's very fast though.
